README.md, before:

# FitLife
- [Build/Setup Instructions](#buildsetup-instructions)
- [Code Structure](#code-structure)

## Build/Setup Instructions
- Project Code
  - Flutter v. 3.7.5 (Dart and DevTools are typically downloaded after installing Flutter)
  - Dart v. 2.19.2
  - DevTools v 2.20.1 
  - Android Studios 

- Database
  - MySQL v. 8.0.32^
  - MySQL Workbench v 8.0.31^ (Mac M1 Venture requires 8.0.31)
  - Create the database tables from "allTables.sql" 

- Emulators
  - XCode (iOS)
  - CocoaPods (iOS)

### Steps
1. Open the project in Android Studios
2. Go to the pubspec.yaml file
3. Select "pub get" (this gets all of the dependencies)
4. Open the iOS and/or Android emulator
5. Run the project 

## Code Structure
- The android, ios and web directories are created by Flutter so that the application runs on these devices
- The lib directory is the source code for this project, broken down by a model-view-controller set up
  - The files within model describe each objects attributes and define methods to connect/interact with the database 
  - The files within view illustrate the UI pages
  - The files within controller are action classes that will interact with the database to change records based on user inputs  
  - The main.dart file is the runnable file

### model
- Exercises.dart: Defines the attributes of an exercise object
- Food.dart: Defines the attributes of a food object
- Post.dart: Defines the attributes of a post object
- User.dart: Defines the attributes of a user object
- post_database.dart: Defines methods to insert/delete/update/select from the post table in the database
- userWeight.dart: Defines the attributes of a userWeight object
- user_database.dart: Initializes the settings for connecting to the database and defines methods to insert/delete/update/select from the user table in the database

### view
- Feed.dart: Illustrates the social media feed page, showing users their own + who they follow uploaded pictures
- Results.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting food items being searched for, based on what is in the database
- account.dart: Illustrates the user's account information that is within the database
- calorie.dart: Illustrates the user's calorie log + updates this data in the database
- exercises.dart: Illustrates the excerise page filled with exercises matching the user selected muscle group for users to look through
- favoriteworkouts.dart: Illustrates the favorite workout page, filled with the logged in user's favorited exercises
- homePage.dart: Illustrates the home page
- searchedFriend.dart: Illustrates the social media page of a "searched for user", essentially a user that is not the one logged in
- searchFriends.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting non-trainer user being searched for, based on what is in the database
- searchTrainers.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting trainer user being searched for, based on what is in the database
- socialMedia.dart: Illustrates the social media page for the logged in user, with their follower/following count, profile pic, bio, and photos they have uploaded
- workouts.dart: Illustrates the workout page that the logged in user has added to their workout plan
- image/
  - blankAvatar.png: The basic profile picture if a user does not upload their own
- Widgets/
  - ExerciseWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each exercise on the exercises.dart page, with the exercise's specific details for the user to scroll through
  - FoodWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each food item on the calorie.dart page, with the food's specific nutritional value
  - HomePageWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for the weight progress generated graph on the home page, with each inputted weight update as an element of the graph
  - WorkoutWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each saved workout on the workout.dart page, with the workout's specific details 

### controller
- EditExerciseDialog.dart: Allows a user to change their reps/set number of a workout and update that in the database
- EditFoodDialog.dart: Allows a user to change their quantity size of a food item and update that in the database
- addExercise.dart: Allows a user to add a specific workout to the database they want to add to their workout plan
- createAccount.dart: Allows a user to create an account to the database
- createPost.dart: Allows a user to create a new post to add to the database with an image from their device's gallery along with a caption
- editCalorie.dart: ???????????????????????
- enterWeight.dart: Allows a user to input their weight for the day and add that to the database
- updateAccount.dart: Allows a user to change their account information in the database
- updateCaption.dart: Allows a user to change a caption in the database for any of their uploaded pictures
- updateComment.dart: Allows a user to add/remove their comment on anyone's uploaded picture, save that information in the database and be directed back to the feed page 
- updateCommentFromSocial.dart: Allows a user to add/remove their comment on their own uploaded picture, save that information in the database and be directed back to their social media page

Commit message:

added short bio of fitlife

README.md, after:

# FitLife
- [Build/Setup Instructions](#buildsetup-instructions)
- [Code Structure](#code-structure)

Fitlife offers a wide range of functionality that users utilize to improve their health and lifestyle. A few of these tools include calorie tracking, planning workouts, and tracking their weight. Not only are there helpful tools and tips to assist users in reaching their fitness goals, but the social media aspect provides individuals with a dedicated platform to engage with fellow fitness advocates.

## Build/Setup Instructions
- Project Code
  - Flutter v. 3.7.5 (Dart and DevTools are typically downloaded after installing Flutter)
  - Dart v. 2.19.2
  - DevTools v 2.20.1 
  - Android Studios 

- Database
  - MySQL v. 8.0.32^
  - MySQL Workbench v 8.0.31^ (Mac M1 Venture requires 8.0.31)
  - Create the database tables from "allTables.sql" 

- Emulators
  - XCode (iOS)
  - CocoaPods (iOS)

### Steps
1. Open the project in Android Studios
2. Go to the pubspec.yaml file
3. Select "pub get" (this gets all of the dependencies)
4. Open the iOS and/or Android emulator
5. Run the project 

## Code Structure
- The android, ios and web directories are created by Flutter so that the application runs on these devices
- The lib directory is the source code for this project, broken down by a model-view-controller set up
  - The files within model describe each objects attributes and define methods to connect/interact with the database 
  - The files within view illustrate the UI pages
  - The files within controller are action classes that will interact with the database to change records based on user inputs  
  - The main.dart file is the runnable file

### model
- Exercises.dart: Defines the attributes of an exercise object
- Food.dart: Defines the attributes of a food object
- Post.dart: Defines the attributes of a post object
- User.dart: Defines the attributes of a user object
- post_database.dart: Defines methods to insert/delete/update/select from the post table in the database
- userWeight.dart: Defines the attributes of a userWeight object
- user_database.dart: Initializes the settings for connecting to the database and defines methods to insert/delete/update/select from the user table in the database

### view
- Feed.dart: Illustrates the social media feed page, showing users their own + who they follow uploaded pictures
- Results.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting food items being searched for, based on what is in the database
- account.dart: Illustrates the user's account information that is within the database
- calorie.dart: Illustrates the user's calorie log + updates this data in the database
- exercises.dart: Illustrates the excerise page filled with exercises matching the user selected muscle group for users to look through
- favoriteworkouts.dart: Illustrates the favorite workout page, filled with the logged in user's favorited exercises
- homePage.dart: Illustrates the home page
- searchedFriend.dart: Illustrates the social media page of a "searched for user", essentially a user that is not the one logged in
- searchFriends.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting non-trainer user being searched for, based on what is in the database
- searchTrainers.dart: Illustrates the search page that shows the resulting trainer user being searched for, based on what is in the database
- socialMedia.dart: Illustrates the social media page for the logged in user, with their follower/following count, profile pic, bio, and photos they have uploaded
- workouts.dart: Illustrates the workout page that the logged in user has added to their workout plan
- image/
  - blankAvatar.png: The basic profile picture if a user does not upload their own
- Widgets/
  - ExerciseWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each exercise on the exercises.dart page, with the exercise's specific details for the user to scroll through
  - FoodWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each food item on the calorie.dart page, with the food's specific nutritional value
  - HomePageWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for the weight progress generated graph on the home page, with each inputted weight update as an element of the graph
  - WorkoutWidgets.dart: Creates a widget for each saved workout on the workout.dart page, with the workout's specific details 

### controller
- EditExerciseDialog.dart: Allows a user to change their reps/set number of a workout and update that in the database
- EditFoodDialog.dart: Allows a user to change their quantity size of a food item and update that in the database
- addExercise.dart: Allows a user to add a specific workout to the database they want to add to their workout plan
- createAccount.dart: Allows a user to create an account to the database
- createPost.dart: Allows a user to create a new post to add to the database with an image from their device's gallery along with a caption
- editCalorie.dart: ???????????????????????
- enterWeight.dart: Allows a user to input their weight for the day and add that to the database
- updateAccount.dart: Allows a user to change their account information in the database
- updateCaption.dart: Allows a user to change a caption in the database for any of their uploaded pictures
- updateComment.dart: Allows a user to add/remove their comment on anyone's uploaded picture, save that information in the database and be directed back to the feed page 
- updateCommentFromSocial.dart: Allows a user to add/remove their comment on their own uploaded picture, save that information in the database and be directed back to their social media page
